Using the idea of the Spotify Aurora, if the average values of the danceability,
energy and valence are low, the user could be seen to be “mellow, sad, depressed”
or it could just be that they prefer a slower song so they can hear and understand
the words. Alternately, if the average values are higher, the listener could be
thought of as “happy, positive and energetic”.  There is more to a person’s music
preferences than just the average values of these metrics, as well as certain
conditions that may lend to having songs on the list that the user does not prefer.
This list of 100 songs can be from a single user, or it could be songs that are used
to play for several people in a group or party setting, in which the original user
may or may not like songs that are being played for the group. This list of 100 songs
may or may not account for repeated listening of their favorite songs as well.

There are many more factors that should be utilized to better match the person with
their song preferences.  If you wanted to account for repeated play of a favorite
song, you should consider the entire time the song was played for the year, including
the times played repeatedly.  Since the list may contain songs that are added due to
being played for people other than the user, a larger cross section of songs should
be used.  Additionally, in order to account for a user’s song preferences, or “Aurora”,
you should also consider the type of music that is being played.

Some examples are:
- softer, slower ‘60s and ‘70s songs could be “protest” type of folk songs (think Bob
Dylan), which could mean that people are rebellious, as opposed to “sad or depressed”
which the Spotify metrics would show
- some faster heavy metal music with very high energy may show someone as happy and
energetic, based on the Spotify metrics, though I propose that it could instead show
someone as distant, mad or even rebellious again.

When looking at a user’s “Aurora”, or music preferences, you really need to use more
metrics than just the three that the Spotify Aurora utilizes. This includes a larger
cross section of the users music, the genre of music and the time that music is repeat
played. Adding these metrics will give a more accurate idea of a user’s Aurora, or their
music preferences.
